README.md, before:

# Calculator Project

A fully functional vanilla JavaScript calculator built as the final project for The Odin Project's Foundations Course. Features progressive equation display, comprehensive keyboard support, and a clean architectural design.

## Project Structure

```
calculator/
├── src/
│   ├── index.html      # Main HTML file with semantic structure
│   ├── global.css      # Organized styles with CSS variables
│   ├── main.js         # Modular JavaScript with clear sections
│   ├── favicon.svg     # Theme-reactive calculator icon
│   └── favicon.ico     # Fallback icon for older browsers
├── .gitignore          # Git ignore rules
├── CLAUDE.md           # AI assistant guidelines
├── README.md           # Project documentation
├── package.json        # NPM dependencies (Lucide icons)
└── package-lock.json   # Dependency lock file
```

## Getting Started

### Running the Project

Open `src/index.html` directly in your browser, or serve it using a local server:

```bash
# Using Python
cd src && python3 -m http.server 8000

# Using Node.js (if installed)
npx serve src

# Or any other static file server
```

Then navigate to `http://localhost:8000` in your browser.

## Features

### Core Functionality ✅

-   **Basic Arithmetic**: Add, subtract, multiply, divide operations
-   **Progressive Equation Display**: Shows equation building in real-time (4 → 41 → 41+ → 41+8 → 41+8=49)
-   **Sequential Operations**: Handles chained calculations (12+7-1=18)
-   **Error Handling**: Division by zero protection and graceful error states
-   **Memory Management**: Proper state tracking for complex calculations

### Input Methods ✅

-   **Mouse/Touch**: Click calculator buttons
-   **Full Keyboard Support**:
    -   Numbers: 0-9 keys and numpad
    -   Operators: +, -, *, / (maps to ×, ÷)
    -   Actions: Enter/NumpadEnter (=), Escape (AC), Delete/C (Clear), Backspace (←)
    -   Decimal: . and NumpadDecimal

### Advanced Features ✅

-   **AC/C Button Functionality**:
    -   AC (All Clear): Complete calculator reset
    -   C (Clear): Context-aware entry clearing
-   **Decimal Support**: Prevents multiple decimal points per number
-   **Backspace**: Character-by-character removal
-   **Smart Display**: Shows full equation context with results

### UI/UX ✅

-   **Theme System**: Smart light/dark mode with localStorage persistence
    -   Respects system preference on first visit
    -   User choice overrides system preference
    -   Theme-reactive favicon that changes with theme
-   **Visual Feedback**: Hover effects and button state transitions
-   **Professional Styling**: Clean, modern calculator interface

## Development Approach

This project uses **vanilla JavaScript, HTML, and CSS** without any build tools or frameworks, focusing on fundamental web development skills.

### Key Design Decisions

-   **No `eval()` or `new Function()`** - Custom safe expression evaluation
-   **Single Source of Truth** - `CALCULATOR_BUTTONS` array drives all functionality
-   **Event Delegation** - One listener for all buttons, better performance
-   **Data-driven Architecture** - Button configuration centralized for easy maintenance
-   **Algorithmic Key Transformation** - Smart numpad handling without duplication
-   **Progressive Enhancement** - Clean separation of concerns

## Browser Support

-   Modern browsers (Chrome 80+, Firefox 75+, Safari 13+, Edge 80+)
-   Favicon: SVG with ICO fallback for older browsers
-   Theme detection: Uses CSS prefers-color-scheme media query

Commit message:

docs: add learning journey documentation and clean language
  - Add comprehensive learning journey documentation covering development process
  - Update README to reference new docs structure

README.md, after:

# Calculator Project

A fully functional vanilla JavaScript calculator built as the final project for The Odin Project's Foundations Course. Features progressive equation display, comprehensive keyboard support, and a clean architectural design.

## Project Structure

```
calculator/
├── src/
│   ├── index.html      # Main HTML file with semantic structure
│   ├── global.css      # Organized styles with CSS variables
│   ├── main.js         # Modular JavaScript with clear sections
│   ├── favicon.svg     # Theme-reactive calculator icon
│   └── favicon.ico     # Fallback icon for older browsers
├── docs/
│   └── learning-journey/    # Development process documentation
│       ├── 00-project-overview-and-learning-goals.md
│       ├── 08.5-critical-refactor-single-source-of-truth.md
│       └── 11-final-architecture-and-complete-features.md
├── .gitignore          # Git ignore rules
├── CLAUDE.md           # AI assistant guidelines
├── README.md           # Project documentation
├── package.json        # NPM dependencies (Lucide icons)
└── package-lock.json   # Dependency lock file
```

## Getting Started

### Running the Project

Open `src/index.html` directly in your browser, or serve it using a local server:

```bash
# Using Python
cd src && python3 -m http.server 8000

# Using Node.js (if installed)
npx serve src

# Or any other static file server
```

Then navigate to `http://localhost:8000` in your browser.

## Features

### Core Functionality ✅

-   **Basic Arithmetic**: Add, subtract, multiply, divide operations
-   **Progressive Equation Display**: Shows equation building in real-time (4 → 41 → 41+ → 41+8 → 41+8=49)
-   **Sequential Operations**: Handles chained calculations (12+7-1=18)
-   **Error Handling**: Division by zero protection and graceful error states
-   **Memory Management**: Proper state tracking for complex calculations

### Input Methods ✅

-   **Mouse/Touch**: Click calculator buttons
-   **Full Keyboard Support**:
    -   Numbers: 0-9 keys and numpad
    -   Operators: +, -, *, / (maps to ×, ÷)
    -   Actions: Enter/NumpadEnter (=), Escape (AC), Delete/C (Clear), Backspace (←)
    -   Decimal: . and NumpadDecimal

### Advanced Features ✅

-   **AC/C Button Functionality**:
    -   AC (All Clear): Complete calculator reset
    -   C (Clear): Context-aware entry clearing
-   **Decimal Support**: Prevents multiple decimal points per number
-   **Backspace**: Character-by-character removal
-   **Smart Display**: Shows full equation context with results

### UI/UX ✅

-   **Theme System**: Smart light/dark mode with localStorage persistence
    -   Respects system preference on first visit
    -   User choice overrides system preference
    -   Theme-reactive favicon that changes with theme
-   **Visual Feedback**: Hover effects and button state transitions
-   **Professional Styling**: Clean, modern calculator interface

## Development Approach

This project uses **vanilla JavaScript, HTML, and CSS** without any build tools or frameworks, focusing on fundamental web development skills.

### Key Design Decisions

-   **No `eval()` or `new Function()`** - Custom safe expression evaluation
-   **Single Source of Truth** - `CALCULATOR_BUTTONS` array drives all functionality
-   **Event Delegation** - One listener for all buttons, better performance
-   **Data-driven Architecture** - Button configuration centralized for easy maintenance
-   **Algorithmic Key Transformation** - Smart numpad handling without duplication
-   **Progressive Enhancement** - Clean separation of concerns

## Learning Journey Documentation

The `/docs/learning-journey/` directory contains detailed documentation of the development process, architectural decisions, and JavaScript fundamentals explored during this project's implementation. These documents trace the evolution from basic implementation to clean architecture, including the critical refactoring that led to the current single source of truth design.

**Key Documents:**
- `00-project-overview-and-learning-goals.md` - Comprehensive project structure and learning objectives  
- `08.5-critical-refactor-single-source-of-truth.md` - Critical architectural evolution and design principles
- `11-final-architecture-and-complete-features.md` - Complete feature overview and final implementation

These are primarily personal learning documentation for reviewing fundamental concepts and architectural decision-making.

## Browser Support

-   Modern browsers (Chrome 80+, Firefox 75+, Safari 13+, Edge 80+)
-   Favicon: SVG with ICO fallback for older browsers
-   Theme detection: Uses CSS prefers-color-scheme media query
